Hello, everyone. Welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco and I'm Erica and today we're going to be going to one of the least favorite places of many many people
So it must be the dentists exactly that place where you have to go every six months, but you probably don't go
You probably don't I know I don't go every six months
So yeah, we're going to be going to the dentist and of course, we're going to be looking at a lot of great vocabulary
related to teeth and all that crazy stuff dentists do. Yes, and we'll also learn some really interesting phrases
So Marco, let's get started with our vocabulary preview
Very vocabulary preview. Okay, I'm vocabulary preview today. We have two words. Let's take a look at the first one
tooth ache tooth ache tooth ache tooth ache. Okay, so we've seen before this
This ending ache right right it means it hurts exactly so again a tooth ache would be
Herding tooth hurting tooth. Yes, we can also say stomach ache headache. Yeah pretty much everything can
ache ache. Okay, so our next word x-ray x-ray x-ray x-ray x
hyphen are a y. Okay, pretty easy word. So when you go to the doctor many times you'll get an x-ray
It is a picture of your bones right so that's an x-ray. All right, well we're going to hear both of these words in the dialogue
So why don't we listen as Gary visits his dentist
Hey Gary, great to see you again
Please have a seat
So tell me what seems to be the problem
Thanks Doc. I've got a really bad tooth ache. I can't eat anything and look my face is all swollen
I think it might be my wisdom teeth. Well, let's have a look
Open wide
Hmm
This doesn't look good
Well, it looks like you have a cavity and your crown is loose
So we'll need to put in a filling before it gets any worse and the crown probably needs to be refitted
I'm going to order some x-ray
Is it gonna hurt? No, not at all
Just lay back and relax
Okay, spit
Okay, that always happens the dentist says no. It's not gonna hurt. Don't worry about it
But it always hurts much more than he says
Exactly, so in this dialogue we saw some interesting words when the dentist was describing what problems Gary had
Yes, so why don't we look at those now in language takeaway
Language takeaway
All right, let's take a look at our first word. So Gary said that his face was
All swollen swollen swollen swollen swollen so swollen is an adjective, right Marco? Right
So his face is or was swollen. It was bigger. Yeah, his face was bigger than normal
Yes, often when you hurt yourself that part of your body becomes
Swollen right, so you have to put some ice on it usually and then the swelling will go down and that's the noun the swelling
Right the swelling and well the verb to swell all right three words for the price of wine
So let's listen to some examples of how we would use the swelling swollen and to swell
Example one
My nose is swollen. It's the size of a football
Example two
Put some ice on your foot and the swelling will go down
Example three I
Got bitten by a spider in my hand is swelling up
All right, so Gary's face was swollen and he thought that it was his wisdom teeth wisdom teeth
Wisdom teeth. Okay, so this is interesting. Wisdom is like wise yet knowledge. Yeah, so these teeth
They're not knowledgeable, but they're called wisdom teeth. They're the teeth that grow last in your mouth, right?
Right, they are the last teeth at the very end of your mouth. Yes, and usually you get them when you're about 20
And since they come out at this age
Sometimes they interfere or they hurt a little bit, so you have to get them taken out. Yes, all right wisdom teeth
Wisdom teeth. Okay, now for our next word and something that we all got as children
Cavity cavity a cavity a cavity a cavity. It's a hole in your tooth a hole in your tooth and it's caused by
Too much sugar or not brushing your teeth enough. Yeah, so that's why
Everyone had it. I think as children cavities. I never had a cavity. Really. Yeah. Wow, didn't have much sugar
I guess I was a bit of a health nut when I was a kid. No, I wasn't my mom was
No, I guess not all right, but enough about my eating habits. Let's talk about our next word
Crown crown a crown
So a crown. This is interesting. We're not talking kings and greed. Right. That's the first thing that comes to mind, right?
No, a crown is actually the visible part of your teeth. Okay, so there's one part of your tooth that's inside that you can't see, right?
That's called the root. Yes, so when he said your crown is loose. What's he talking really about the actual tooth?
So sometimes people will lose a tooth or have a really bad cavity. So the dentist needs to make a new crown or a new
Visible part of the tooth for you. So sometimes it'll be made of gold. Yeah, or porcelain or saline. Yeah, exactly. So a crown.
It's like a really really really big filling. Mm-hmm. I got crowned. So his crown needed to be refitted or
Put back into place. Yes, and we're final word a filling filling a filling a filling. So I just said this word previously
Now when you have a cavity, you need to fill it in. Right. You need to fill it with something. Yes
Usually some sort of paste and it gets really hard and it's just like your tooth exactly. So then it covers up this cavity filling a filling
I have many feelings. I wasn't very healthy as a kid. All right, not a good tooth pressure
Exactly, so why don't we listen to this dialogue again and then we'll come back and talk a little bit about some of the
interesting phrases that the doctor used
Hey, Gary
Great to see you again
Please have a seat
So tell me what seems to be the problem
Things doc, I've got a really bad toothache. I can't eat anything and look my face is also all in
I think it might be my wisdom teeth. Well, let's have a look
open wide
Oh
This doesn't look good
Well, it looks like you have a cavity and your crown is loose
We'll need to put in a filling before it gets any worse and the crown probably needs to be refitted
I'm gonna order some x-rays
Is it gonna hurt? No, not at all
Oh, just lay back and relax
Okay, spit
Well the dentist used three really interesting phrases and I want to look at the first one
What seems to be the problem? What seems to be the problem? Okay, very easy
little sentence to ask somebody what's wrong? Exactly, right? And I mean these are small easy words
But when you put them together, they sound really natural and and really fluent
So if you ask somebody what seems to be the problem is very polite
And it's a very good way of asking what's wrong? Yes, all right
Our next phrase also made up of simple words
Let's have a look. Let's have a look. Let's have a look. So this is a phrase that maybe you're mechanic or your dentist or your doctor will say or anyone right
Let's have a look. Let's look at it and see what the problem is
Okay, let's have a look. Okay, and our final phrase
It doesn't look good
It doesn't look good. It doesn't look good. So I can use this phrase for an object, right? Yeah, like a this house doesn't look good
Yes, but here it's used a little bit differently. So why don't we listen to some examples to help us understand the meaning
Example one
John told me it doesn't look good for me. I probably won't get the job
Example two
It doesn't look good for Michael Jackson. He's in a lot of debt
Example three
You know the economy doesn't look very good
Okay, so in the examples we can see that they are using it for the situation. Yeah, it looks maybe
problematic. Yeah, so when you say it doesn't look good you basically mean
There are going to be problems. All right, it doesn't look good. Yeah, okay
So great phrases great words. Let's listen to our
Gary at the dentist one more time and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more
Hey, Gary
Great to see you again
Please have a seat
So tell me what seems to be the problem
Big stock I've got a really meant to think I can't eat anything and look my faces all swollen
I think it might be my wisdom teeth. Well, let's have a look open wide
Hmm
This doesn't look good
Well, it looks like you have a cavity and your crown is loose
So we'll need to put in a filling before it gets any worse and the crown probably needs to be refitted
I'm going to order some x-rays
Is it gonna hurt? No, not at all
Just lay back and relax
Okay, spit
Well, Marco speaking of dentists have you ever had an experience like this where you've spat out a tooth at the dentist?
Well, nothing so serious as this but
Actually recently when I was in Cambodia. All right, you called us to in Cambodia. Yeah
Well, our taxi driver offered us to have some local food and he said well, we're gonna have dog
So that's interesting
Actually, it wasn't that bad. It was pretty good, but you know if you get around the fact that it's a dog
So what does this have to do with your teeth? I was eating it and I bit a bone that was hidden
Okay, and I chipped my tooth. So you broke part of your tooth. Yeah, like half of it
Which I had already chipped before so I had to go to the dentist and so the dentist created a new crown with
Not with gold or porcelain and actually with a paste. Oh, and then it becomes hard and it just looks normal
It doesn't even look like I have a fake crown, so to say, but dentists can be really expensive
So how much did this cost?
Well, this was for the bargain price of
$10
That's how much it cost. So we should all go to Cambodia for dentistry. Yeah, because actually he was pretty good
He looked really young though. I was kind of scared because when he walked in he looked like he was 19
But I asked him his age and he was like 30. Okay. Well, you're very trusting
Yeah, so I imagine that you guys maybe have some dental experiences
So why don't you come to our website and tell us all about it. Yeah, visit us at EnglishPod.com
And you can find lots more resources for learning English there
Well, guys, thanks for listening and until next time. Bye bye